# EVM token bridge

The EVM token bridge is a mechanism that allows EVM tokens to move between the EOS environment and the EVM environment via the EVM runtime contract. As part of this mechanism, the EVM runtime contract also acts as a mostly `eosio.token`-compatible contract to host the EVM token, and includes the standard actions `issue`, `retire`, `open`, `close`, and `transfer`. It is not possible to create arbitrary tokens (there is no `create` action). The EVM runtime contract acting as a token contract only supports the `EVM` token which is set up on initialization of the EVM runtime contract. 

The flow of tokens from the EOS environment to the EVM environment is further enhanced to allow an arbitrary EOS smart contract to call into an EVM contract and get back the returned results (facilitated via the `sendevm` action). The EVM call comes from a sender address within a reserved address range which maps to the particular EOS account that initiated the call. EVM transactions with senders from this reserved address range do not require a valid signature but can only be submitted by the EVM runtime contract itself as an inline action. The EVM protocol rules are further adjusted such that addresses in the reserved range are considered to have always existed and have an unlimited supply of EVM tokens available to them.

The flow of tokens from the EVM environment to the EOS environment is more limited in that it does not trigger any arbitrary EOS smart contract code to run as a result of the token transfer. An EVM contract can however direct the EVM tokens to a balance owned by a particular EOS account by sending to then EVM address within the reserved address range which maps to that EOS account. It is necessary for the EOS account to first `open` the balance before anyone can send funds to it; if an EVM contract sends EVM tokens to the special EVM address mapping to an EOS account that does not have a balance open within the EVM token contract, the EVM call will not just be reverted but the entire EOS transaction executing the EVM call will be aborted (this is to maintain compatibility with the Silkworm implementation).

The token supply within the EVM environment starts at zero and new tokens are introduced by pulling them from the void of the special reserved addresses via EVM transactions constructed by the EVM runtime contract. The expected way to bootstrap the EVM token distribution is to first `issue` the new EVM token within the EOS environment to an EOS account managed by the Trust EVM team, then transfer those EVM tokens via the bridge to an EVM address also managed by the same Trust EVM team, and finally distribute the EVM tokens rom that EVM address to other EVM addresses as needed using regular EVM transactions.

See the [EVM token flow diagram](./evm_token_flow.md) for a visual summary of many of the important flow paths that EVM tokens take through the EVM token bridge mechanism. That diagram also shows how a portion of collected fees are distributed to a special staking contract within the EVM environment that is managed by the Trust EVM team. 