# Trust In Time

When creating a blockchain within a blockchain a few decisions that normally don’t have to be made come up.  One of these decisions is what you base your block numbering on for constructing the nested blockchain’s blocks.

There are a couple of approaches that can be used; correlating the blocks one-to-one with the foundational blockchain or abstracting to some external basis.  If one uses the mapping of foundational blocks to the nested blockchain’s blocks then as the foundational chain improves performance in the future then the time scale for the nested blockchain is also changed.  This can lead to problems where the nested blockchain is using the assumptions about the time interval for block creation, because if the foundational chain initially has half second blocks and moves to quarter second blocks then the nested chain immediately becomes a quarter second.  This may sound like a benefit, but the nested chain has no ability to opt in to new when it makes sense for it.

What we opted to do is use time itself as the basis for the nested blockchain block timestamps.  Because we’ve decoupled it from the foundational chain, the nested blockchain can determine if, when and how it creates blocks at shorter intervals.

One more factor is what time scale and interval do we want to use to determine the interval of block production.  If we look at EVM, its standard assumes for each block the correlated timestamp is distinct.  This leads to another standard of EVM which is that EVM only has resolution of time of seconds, so from this we can only go as far a one second block time as to not work against the standard, cause compatibility issues or make it yet another caveat that smart contract developers and DApp developers have to be cognizant of.  If you were to use a shorter duration like a half of second then for that same timestamp you would have two blocks with the same timestamp, i.e. breaking the invariant that for each successive block the timestamp is distinct and monotonic.

The other factor into this is that the latency difference between 0.5 second block time and 1 second block time is X% <fill this in when we finally get this number>.  If you look at things like https://twitter.com/ape_swap/status/1585339130627489792, we can see that Telos, which has 0.5s block time, overall latency is still quite high.  When we look at interfaces and services designed for EVM based projects, many have multi-second polling so the overall latency disparity is purely academic until block times become greater than a few seconds.

Given the low value that comes with going for 0.5s block time, we made the delineation to go with the lowest latency that still adheres to the EVM specification which is 1 second block times.
